Hey everyone, this lecture is going to be
about building an actual r package.
So we've already seen kind of what is in R
package and what are the different
components of the package.
So I thought in this lecture I'd like to
make do a little demo,
and going to show exactly you know how to
put all of the pieces together.
In particular, how to do it in our studio
which actually
makes it pretty convenient So the package
we're going to build today.
Is going to be a very small package.
It's only going to be two functions.
And the functions in the package are going
to be.
Are going to build a prediction model for
a high dimensional data set.
Using just the top ten predictors.
So if you want a little bit of a
background on kind
of what the rationale for this model is,
I'll put a link up.
You can look at the link right here.
and, you can read more about it.
So that's the package that we're going to
build.
It's going to be called the top ten
package.
And so, we'll do that in R studio.
And you can see how you know everything is
done.
Okay, so the first thing that we need to
do is start up R studio.
So, let's just start it up here.
And I might as well just make it full
screen, while we're at it.
Okay, so, this is the kind of the default,
screen
for R studio, the first thing we're
going to want to do
when we start on R project, sorry on R
package project,
is to kind of start a new project, I'm
going to
open up a project menu here and say new
project
and we want to start this project in a new
directory,
so I'll click on that then what we want to
do
is build in R package, and the name of R
package.
You can create whatever name you want, but
I'm just going to call it the top ten
package.
Cause that's the predictor model that we
are building, and it's going
to be in the sub directory of my home
directory which is fine.
So I'll just hit create project.
Okay.
So you can see.
That that puts me in the directory here,
where where
the packaged files are going to live, and
you can see
these are the package files here and you
can see,
it's kind of put up a bunch of default
files
in there, there is a description file, a
namespace file
and then, if you look in the R directory
there
is a, there is a file, there is a code
file but you'll notice that there is
actually nothing in it.
So, we'll have to fill that up in just a
second.
let's.
So let's just navigate this, file
directory a little bit more.
In the top level directory see there's a
description file we talked about.
If you open it up you'll see it's pre
filled a bunch of the fields for you.
It put the package in.
Name in there for me.
But we're going to have to fill our, you
know, with
the the title, the author, the maintainer,
the description, etcetera.
So why don't we do that just right now.
So the title of this package is going to
be, the top, excuse me.
Just the we'll call it, building
a prediction
model from the top 10 features.
And version 1.0 is fine.
The date is fine.
Who wrote it, so that's going to be me,
let's say.
Uh,the maintainer's going to be me, but
the important thing, of course,
about a maintainer is that there has to be
an email address there.
So it'll be me again.
[NOISE]
And then the description is just a little
bit longer.
Than the title so I'll just say you know
build
functions for [SOUND] prediction models
from selecting.
Actually building, let's say building and
predicting from models from selecting
the top ten predictors in a data set.
Something like that.
It doesn't have to be too long.
And then the license, we'll just choose a
nice, open source license like, Gnu Gpl.
So, we'll just call that Gpl version 3,
and that's our description file.
So I'm just going to save that,
and, by hitting command s.
And then I'll just close it up because we
don't need it anymore.
So, I think at this point there really
aren't any other files that
we can fill out, so we might as well just
start coding away.
Okay, so the first thing we're going to
want to do is build R top ten functions.
Let's call it top ten.
And we will take two arguments x and y.
So the x is going to be the kind of matrix
of predictors and y is going to
be the vector of responses so p is the
number of columns that is going to be p
predictors.
Uh,I think it doesn't really make sense to
look
at the top ten predictors if there aren't
at
least ten predictors, so we're going to
say, we're going to
check to see if p is at least ten.
And if it's not we'll just stop.
>> [SOUND] So the way this model works is
basically, for each predictor
in your kind of matrix of predictors, we
fit a, a univariate
regression model of the, of the response
on each individual predictor.
And then for each individual predictors,
so there is going to be
all these regression models that we fit
and for each predictor,
there is going to be a p value associated
with that,
that given predictor, you know, depending
on how strong the association is.
So, so for every predictor we're going to
have a p value, and then
what we're going to do is we're going to
sort the p values from kind of
smallest to largest and then we'll take
the top ten smallest in this
case p values, which indicate kind of
the, the predictors of the strongest
associations.
So we'll take those top ten predictors,
and then we'll fit a separate regression
model
with those ten predictors in it and that
will be kind of the final prediction
model.
>> Alright so we're, first, so we've
already
checked to see if there's at least ten
predictors.
And we'll initialize our vector of p
values here.
This is going to be an empty vector of
zeros.
And the original loop through each of the
predictors
and righ, and fit univary regression
models.
And fit lm y to the x, and it'll [UNKNOWN]
i.
And then we want to, we want to get the p
values out, so we need the summary of that
model fit.
And then the p values for that predictor,
p value for that
predictor, is just going to be the, key in
the coefficients element.
And it's the forth, column here.
And so we are going to accumulate all of
those p values.
And then once we've done that, we want to,
we'll look at.
We want to sort the p values.
We'll look at all of the ordering of p
values.
In order by default, we'll sort them for
lower to
giver the index indicies for the smallest
to the largest.
And then
okay.
So then and then we just want to take the
top ten.
So the so the the order, what we really
want, just the, as one through ten here.
And then we want a, so now we create a new
data set called x10.
With the kind of top ten predictors, from
the old data set, the original data set,
and fit this final linear model, [SOUND]
and then grab the coefficients, from the
model and
so that's kind of what the top ten
function returns.
So we've got our top ten function, which
kind of fits the model,
it, it goes through all the p values and
picks the top ten.
So I'm going to write one for function
that that takes the coefficients from the
final fitted model, and it takes some,
kind of, additional input vectors, and
gives you a prediction for the new values,
right, so it takes the
coefficients and some data and gives you
predictions, a predicted response for each
one.
So we will call that, lets call predict10
and
it's going to take a matrix of predictors.
Now, this matrix can only have ten
predictors in it because that's what
the model, final mode says and then a
vector coefficients is called b.
And then it's pretty simple.
We are going to do, first thing, we are
going to do
is I am going to add the intercepts to
this matrix
and then we're going to do a matrix
multiplication of the
new kind of data and the coefficients from
the model.
So, I'll do x times b is the matrix
multiplication and then I want to
drop the dimension eh, so that it gives me
a vector I'll call drop.
So this just returns a vector predicted
responses.
Okay, so we've got our code for the
package it's pretty straightforward.
Just this two functions, but in order to
have
a package of course, we need a, a bunch
of other stuff; we need some
documentation, and we
need to be able to specify the namespace
file.
So the way that we're going to
documentation in
this package is we're going to use Roxygen
2 package.
And so the, what the, what's nice about
this, the format is
that allows you put all the documentation
in the code file itself.
And then what the Roxygen 2 package does
is it strips out the documentation that
you put
in the code file and it makes the
man pages, it formats it in the
appropriate way.
So, you don't have to worry about,
documenting separate, writing out separate
documentation files.
Two nice things about this is one is that
it kind of keeps you focused on one file.
You don't have to kind of constantly
switch back and forth.
And the other thing is that since the
documentation is actually
close, physically close to the code,
there's a better chance that the
documentation will stay up to date because
you'll be able to see
if there are any discrepancies between the
documentation and the code itself.
So, let's go ahead and do that.
So the first function I want to document
here is
the top ten function and so the first, so
one
of, I need to give it a, so the first you
want to do is give it a little hash
then the and then the apostrophe there,
and I'll give
it a title so I'll call it building a
model
with top ten features, and you can see
that our
studio nicely kind of insert those extra
hashes for you.
And I'll give a little title, description
here so this function develops
a prediction algorithm based on the top
ten features in x that are most predictive
of y.
Okay seems reasonable.
And then we want to start documenting some
of
the arguments so first we can use the
parameter here
say, there's an x argument and say this is
a n by p
matrix of n observations and p predictors.
There's another parameter here called y,
[SOUND]
and this is a vector of length n
representing
the response, okay, and I will save the
return
value Is a vector of
coefficients from the final fitted model
with
top ten features.
There's a couple other things we can fill
out.
Such as the author, and that's me.
If there's some extra details we can write
out,
somebody will write some details here for
the reader.
I'll say this function runs a univariate
regression of y on each predictor in x
and calculates a p-value indication
the significance of the association.
And, the final set of ten predictors is
taken from the ten smallest.
P values, okay, so that's a little
description there.
You might want direct readers to the LM
function just in case,
you know, they want to know where the hava
linear models fit.
Now what's important about, actually
important about this function.
First of all, it's going the be the
function that we want to export.
So we want to make sure that we export in
the main space file.
So we gotta put the export directive here.
And then furthermore, because this
function uses
the LM function, which comes from the
stats package, we need to import that
function, so that we can use it.
So we need to import from the stats
package, the LM function.
So that's going to go into the name space
file.
Alright, so that's our documentation for
the top ten function.
Now let's go down here and look at the
predict ten function.
So we gotta do, probably gotta do the same
thing here.
Start a little documentation with the
prediction of the top ten features.
And this will say this function instead of
coefficience.
Produced by the top ten function.
And makes a prediction for each of the
values provided in the input x matrix.
Okay, it's in that little description
there.
So what parameters does this function have
well.there's
x there's b, then we know it returns
a numeric vector
containing the predicted values.
Alright so what's x, this is an by 10
matrix, containing n new observations.
And then what is v?
V is a vector of coefficients obtained
from the
top ten function.
Alright.
So, then, of course, we also want to
export this function.
So we hit the export directive.
This function doesn't export anything
special.
So, we don't need an import directive.
Alright.
So, let's save that with command s here.
Okay, so we've written our R-code.
We've written some documentation in the
R-code, and so now it's going to
be time to kind of process
this information and start building our
package.
So, let's see how we do that in R Studio.
So in R Studio we can go over here to the
build tab and you'll notice that this
bill tab only exists if you, if your, if
you've created a project that's
specifically an R package okay.
So let's try to build our package and then
load it into R.
Okay?
So you can see that at the top, in the top
window here,
the R session has restarted, and then the
top ten package has been loaded.
Okay?
So, one of the things you'll notice, if
you go over here
to the left, in the files, if you, let's
go in the man
directory here, Oh, and you see that
there's a, there's a default kind
of, documentation file here that talks,
that just kind of describes the package.
But you notice that the documentation
files have
not been created by the Roxygen 2 package.
And so what we actually have to do is
we gotta go into here and configure our
build tools.
And then we, what we want to do, we
want to generate documentation
with Roxygen and we want to create the RD
file from the manual.
Let's create the namespace file from the
documentation in the, that we wrote.
And then we'll do it when we build and
reload.
'Kay?
This over here on the left this package
documentation file is not required,
so I'm just going to delete it because I
don't feel like writing it.
Alright, so let's build and reload R
package again.
And you'll notice now that the the two
documentation files here for our code have
been written,
so if you look in the top10.rd file
you can see all this information has been
extracted
from the the documentation that we wrote
in the R file, so this is all of the
stuff that we just wrote, and for the
predict ten function again, another set of
documentation here.
So, Let's take a look at our top ten
package here.
I can do library, its already been loaded
but lets take a, library help top
ten, ops, and you can see here's the
description file that we wrote
out as a bit of information these the
exported functions over here, ahm, if
I look at, if I, I can print out the code
for top ten.
And you'll see that's the code that we
wrote.
If I do question mark top ten, you'll see
that
the documentation file that, has been
built is right here.
So, it, it's formatted nicely here.
We can look at the documentation for
predict ten.
And you see that here's the documentation
that we wrote.
Should be all familiar to us.
Let's bring this down.
And so that's R package is pretty much
all, most of the way there.
If you want to see if it passes R command
check, it's very simple.
You just click the check button here and
it will run our command
check, it will build the package and then
run R command check dot.
And so you see all the tests are going by.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Okay, so you can see that R command check
finished
and it looks like we passed all of the
tests.
You see everything is okay over here so
that is a good sign.
So I'm not going to upload this package
this to command, but but we could upload
to command because we would see that we
pass our all the tests in R command check.
So this very simple R package, we just
wrote a little.
We wrote two functions, but you can see
that
in R studio there are a lot of handy
tools.
For putting a package together and for
building documentation files.
And so try I,I encourage you to try it
out and write, write some functions, maybe
take some
of the homework that you've done already
and build
in R package out of the functions that
you've written.
It's not too hard and particularly when
you use
the tools in R studio, you can go very
quickly.